rules/index.md, before:

# The Endless Kaizo IronMON Challenge

The Endless Kaizo IronMon challenge is a [Pokémon Randomizer](https://github.com/Ajarmar/universal-Pokemon-randomizer-zx/releases) challenge run inspired by [iateyourpie](https://www.twitch.tv/iateyourpie) and the IronMON Challenge.  
Endless Kaizo IronMON was created by [Selipnir](https://www.twitch.tv/selipnir).

This ruleset was designed to be used with the Ironmon Tracker and the Endless Kaizo Ironmon Extension. You don't need to use them, but they help a lot.

Instead of a single run this is now a nearly endless run! Think of it like a standard Kaizo IronMON run, but with a set starter in the lab for yourself. You start with the highest BST Pokémon and as you win runs you go down the list (skip Shedinja, nobody needs that).

This challenge is designed exclusively around the FireRed/LeafGreen game. Feel free to adapt the rules to your preferred game.

## Endless Kaizo IronMon Ruleset

| Rule                          | Details                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | Notes                                                                                                                                                                  |
|-------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Randomize the game            | All Pokémon, movesets, and items are randomized, with Trainer Pokémon & Wild Pokémon levels increased by **50%**.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | Visit the Ironmon Discord for a list of Setting Strings to apply all required Randomizer settings.                                                                     |
| Game Over                     | Once your main Pokémon has fainted, the run is over. Run it back.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                                                                        |
| No Shops                      | You can only use items that you pick up or are given by an NPC, no use of stores except for any type of Pokéball or Repel.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | You cannot ask an NPC to buy items for you (e.g. Mom), nor can you buy items to trade them for other items (e.g. Poké Balls → Full Restores).                          |
| Starter List                  | You will pick a starter and continuously reset until you beat the game with them. You will then start a new run with a new starter and continue through all the Pokémon.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |                                                                                                                                                                        |
| Banned Items                  | Banned items: Lucky Egg, Sacred Ash.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | During the lab fight(s) only, you may hold banned items.                                                                                                               |
| Stolen Items                  | You may not intentionally steal items from wild Pokémon with moves like Thief, Covet, etc. Stealing them from a trainer battle is fine.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | If you steal from a wild Pokémon, throw the item away.                                                                  |
| Accidental Kills/Catches      | - If you accidentally kill a wild Pokémon you must skip fighting a trainer to take the experience hit.  
- Then continue as if it never happened. | You may throw Pokéballs at a Pokémon for reasons like being unable to run or scouting its moves without risking killing it.                          |
| No Redos                      | You may not re-fight trainers at any point using the VS Seeker or other means. You may not abuse respawning items by picking them up more than once.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                        |
| Shiny Clause                  | If you encounter a shiny, you are allowed to kill it for EXP.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | You may not increase the shiny Pokémon rate using the randomizer.                                                                                                       |
| Don't Give Up Without a Fight | You may not reset before the first battle if you don't like the starter Pokémon. After that it's fine.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | You might be surprised how far you can go with what looks like a terrible starter.                                                                                      |
| Don't be Rude                 | You have to talk to MOM when you start your journey, otherwise that's just rude.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |                                                                                                                                                                        |
| One Pokémon at a time          | You may only use one Pokémon at all times. The only additional Pokémon you can carry are HM Friends. If you see a Pokémon the same as your own, you may swap at any point (to avoid Truant or other bad abilities). Once you swap you cannot go back.                                                                                       | HM Friends cannot be used in battle or for any other advantage (like the ability Pickup).                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| No Random TMs                  | No use of TMs or Move Tutor except for TMs you get from defeating Gym Leaders.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | You must use the moves that your Pokémon learns naturally or the TMs handed to you from defeating Gym Leaders.                                                                                                            
| Banned Moves                   | - Healing moves of any kind (Recover, Milk Drink, Drain Punch, Leech Seed, Refresh/Aroma, etc)  
- Spore  
- Assist  
- You are allowed to use a banned move either through Metronome or after temporarily copying it using Mimic | If your starter Pokémon has a banned move, you may use it in the lab fight only.                                                                                                       |
| Banned Abilities               | Using any physical move is banned while having Huge Power or Pure Power (special moves are okay).  
- Banned abilities don't apply to:  
  - Pokémon with BST 399 or lower  
  - Pokémon with BST 400–410 (inclusive) that will eventually evolve | You may use banned abilities in the lab fight. If you can't avoid using a banned ability through Brock you must restart if no other options present.                                                                                                                                                     |
| Nemesis Clause                 | - You may pick ONE Pokémon to be your nemesis.  
- You must kill it immediately upon seeing it in the wild for the first time  
- You may never catch your nemesis | |
| No Healing Items outside of Battle | No HP healing items while outside of battle | This includes status heals and PP Restore items. PP UP/PP Max can be used outside of battle. |
| Held Items Restriction         | - Only items that are consumed on use like berries or a white herb, with the exception of Focus Sash which is banned  
- Evolution items  
- A Smoke Ball (for running away from wild battles) | - Evolution items can only be held to evolve a Pokémon  
- During the lab fight(s) only, you may hold banned items |
| No Healing Stations in Dungeons | No Pokécenter-like healing in dungeons (example: Rocket Hideout NPC, SS Anne Bed, etc) | Forced heals from the story are fine but you cannot go back for more |
| Kaizo Banned Items             | No use of any flute items for status healing | |
| Kaizo Randomizer Settings      | - Static Pokémon MUST NOT have level increase  
- No "Make Evolutions Easier"  
- Forced Fully Evolved at Level 30  
- Add 3 Additional Pokémon to Boss Trainers | Certain settings may not be available for all generations |
| No Relearner Abuse             | You cannot use the Move Relearner NPC to teach Sketch to a Pokémon that has already sketched a move |   
| No Evolving Before Jimmy       | If your mon can evolve you must cancel the evolution if it is before you beat the first trainer in the forest | Any forest trainer counts for this, so Earliest Gatekeeper → evolve → fight Jimmy is allowed |
| You must name your mon         | After the Brock fight your Pokémon must have a unique name | 

## FAQs

> **Q**: Why?  
> A: I like the idea of going from the lab to the champion with a single mon, and then working through the whole Pokédex like that.

> **Q**: Can I change the order?  
> A: Of course. Don't sweat the small stuff. We encourage the highest-to-lowest BST for the most unique experience, but your order can be unique.

> **Q**: I just beat the game with Latias, started a new run with Ho-oh and died. Do I have to start over with Latias again?  
> A: Nope. Latias is off your list, now it is all Ho-oh until you win, etc.

> **Q**: What settings in the tracker should I use?  
> A: Whatever you like. Personally I suggest turning off the ball picker since you won't use it.

> **Q**: What tracker extensions do you suggest?  
> A: SmackerTracker might be a fun one.

> **Q**: What else should I use?  
> A: I suggest the Quality of Life patch by Dr. Maple and anything else that helps you relax and enjoy the challenge.

Don't forget to join the Ironmon Discord server. There are tons of great resources there!

Commit message:

Enhance challenge description with additional inspiration
Updated the description of the Endless Kaizo IronMON challenge to include inspiration from iateyourpie.

rules/index.md, after:

# The Endless Kaizo IronMON Challenge

The Endless Kaizo IronMon challenge is a [Pokémon Randomizer](https://github.com/Ajarmar/universal-Pokemon-randomizer-zx/releases) challenge run inspired by [iateyourpie](https://www.twitch.tv/iateyourpie) and the IronMON Challenge.  
Endless Kaizo IronMON was created by [Selipnir](https://www.twitch.tv/selipnir) and greatly inspired by the legendary [iateyourpie](https://www.twitch.tv/iateyourpie)

This ruleset was designed to be used with the Ironmon Tracker and the Endless Kaizo Ironmon Extension. You don't need to use them, but they help a lot.

Instead of a single run this is now a nearly endless run! Think of it like a standard Kaizo IronMON run, but with a set starter in the lab for yourself. You start with the highest BST Pokémon and as you win runs you go down the list (skip Shedinja, nobody needs that).

This challenge is designed exclusively around the FireRed/LeafGreen game. Feel free to adapt the rules to your preferred game.

## Endless Kaizo IronMon Ruleset

| Rule                          | Details                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | Notes                                                                                                                                                                  |
|-------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Randomize the game            | All Pokémon, movesets, and items are randomized, with Trainer Pokémon & Wild Pokémon levels increased by **50%**.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | Visit the Ironmon Discord for a list of Setting Strings to apply all required Randomizer settings.                                                                     |
| Game Over                     | Once your main Pokémon has fainted, the run is over. Run it back.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                                                                        |
| No Shops                      | You can only use items that you pick up or are given by an NPC, no use of stores except for any type of Pokéball or Repel.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | You cannot ask an NPC to buy items for you (e.g. Mom), nor can you buy items to trade them for other items (e.g. Poké Balls → Full Restores).                          |
| Starter List                  | You will pick a starter and continuously reset until you beat the game with them. You will then start a new run with a new starter and continue through all the Pokémon.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |                                                                                                                                                                        |
| Banned Items                  | Banned items: Lucky Egg, Sacred Ash.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | During the lab fight(s) only, you may hold banned items.                                                                                                               |
| Stolen Items                  | You may not intentionally steal items from wild Pokémon with moves like Thief, Covet, etc. Stealing them from a trainer battle is fine.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | If you steal from a wild Pokémon, throw the item away.                                                                  |
| Accidental Kills/Catches      | - If you accidentally kill a wild Pokémon you must skip fighting a trainer to take the experience hit.  
- Then continue as if it never happened. | You may throw Pokéballs at a Pokémon for reasons like being unable to run or scouting its moves without risking killing it.                          |
| No Redos                      | You may not re-fight trainers at any point using the VS Seeker or other means. You may not abuse respawning items by picking them up more than once.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                        |
| Shiny Clause                  | If you encounter a shiny, you are allowed to kill it for EXP.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | You may not increase the shiny Pokémon rate using the randomizer.                                                                                                       |
| Don't Give Up Without a Fight | You may not reset before the first battle if you don't like the starter Pokémon. After that it's fine.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | You might be surprised how far you can go with what looks like a terrible starter.                                                                                      |
| Don't be Rude                 | You have to talk to MOM when you start your journey, otherwise that's just rude.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |                                                                                                                                                                        |
| One Pokémon at a time          | You may only use one Pokémon at all times. The only additional Pokémon you can carry are HM Friends. If you see a Pokémon the same as your own, you may swap at any point (to avoid Truant or other bad abilities). Once you swap you cannot go back.                                                                                       | HM Friends cannot be used in battle or for any other advantage (like the ability Pickup).                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| No Random TMs                  | No use of TMs or Move Tutor except for TMs you get from defeating Gym Leaders.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | You must use the moves that your Pokémon learns naturally or the TMs handed to you from defeating Gym Leaders.                                                                                                            
| Banned Moves                   | - Healing moves of any kind (Recover, Milk Drink, Drain Punch, Leech Seed, Refresh/Aroma, etc)  
- Spore  
- Assist  
- You are allowed to use a banned move either through Metronome or after temporarily copying it using Mimic | If your starter Pokémon has a banned move, you may use it in the lab fight only.                                                                                                       |
| Banned Abilities               | Using any physical move is banned while having Huge Power or Pure Power (special moves are okay).  
- Banned abilities don't apply to:  
  - Pokémon with BST 399 or lower  
  - Pokémon with BST 400–410 (inclusive) that will eventually evolve | You may use banned abilities in the lab fight. If you can't avoid using a banned ability through Brock you must restart if no other options present.                                                                                                                                                     |
| Nemesis Clause                 | - You may pick ONE Pokémon to be your nemesis.  
- You must kill it immediately upon seeing it in the wild for the first time  
- You may never catch your nemesis | |
| No Healing Items outside of Battle | No HP healing items while outside of battle | This includes status heals and PP Restore items. PP UP/PP Max can be used outside of battle. |
| Held Items Restriction         | - Only items that are consumed on use like berries or a white herb, with the exception of Focus Sash which is banned  
- Evolution items  
- A Smoke Ball (for running away from wild battles) | - Evolution items can only be held to evolve a Pokémon  
- During the lab fight(s) only, you may hold banned items |
| No Healing Stations in Dungeons | No Pokécenter-like healing in dungeons (example: Rocket Hideout NPC, SS Anne Bed, etc) | Forced heals from the story are fine but you cannot go back for more |
| Kaizo Banned Items             | No use of any flute items for status healing | |
| Kaizo Randomizer Settings      | - Static Pokémon MUST NOT have level increase  
- No "Make Evolutions Easier"  
- Forced Fully Evolved at Level 30  
- Add 3 Additional Pokémon to Boss Trainers | Certain settings may not be available for all generations |
| No Relearner Abuse             | You cannot use the Move Relearner NPC to teach Sketch to a Pokémon that has already sketched a move |   
| No Evolving Before Jimmy       | If your mon can evolve you must cancel the evolution if it is before you beat the first trainer in the forest | Any forest trainer counts for this, so Earliest Gatekeeper → evolve → fight Jimmy is allowed |
| You must name your mon         | After the Brock fight your Pokémon must have a unique name | 

## FAQs

> **Q**: Why?  
> A: I like the idea of going from the lab to the champion with a single mon, and then working through the whole Pokédex like that.

> **Q**: Can I change the order?  
> A: Of course. Don't sweat the small stuff. We encourage the highest-to-lowest BST for the most unique experience, but your order can be unique.

> **Q**: I just beat the game with Latias, started a new run with Ho-oh and died. Do I have to start over with Latias again?  
> A: Nope. Latias is off your list, now it is all Ho-oh until you win, etc.

> **Q**: What settings in the tracker should I use?  
> A: Whatever you like. Personally I suggest turning off the ball picker since you won't use it.

> **Q**: What tracker extensions do you suggest?  
> A: SmackerTracker might be a fun one.

> **Q**: What else should I use?  
> A: I suggest the Quality of Life patch by Dr. Maple and anything else that helps you relax and enjoy the challenge.

Don't forget to join the Ironmon Discord server. There are tons of great resources there!
